---
layout: assignment-two-column
title: Philosophy and the News
abbreviation: HW 1
type: homework
ordering: 1
due_date: 2021-01-24
draft: 0
---

## Instructions
In your first homework assignment, you will be analyzing a technology-related controversy that has made the headlines recently, using some of the philosophical ideas that we've been learning about. Please complete the 4 tasks below:

### 1. Describe the controversy (~1/3 of a page single spaced) 
Describe the technology, the controversy, and the context surrounding the controversy. Make sure you answer the following questions:

* What is the debate?
* Why is it a debate?
* Who are the stakeholders in the debate?

### 2. Analyze the controversy (between 2/3 and 1 page single spaced) 
Analyze the controversy using one or more of the philosophical texts we have been reading in this class. Some approaches you might take:

* Examine how the debate might be understood as different "weights" being given to different dimensions of "the moral mind" (Haidt)?
* Describe how a particular philosophical approach (e.g. utilitarianism, libertarianism, Kantian / deontological ethics, etc.) would make sense of the controversy and settle the debate.
* You are also welcome to take another analytic approach, so long as it is grounded in the readings and ideas of the class.

Some guidelines for part 2:

* Be sure to define the theories / philosophical approaches that you draw upon (with citations from the course readings) before applying them to the controversy you selected.
* You don't have to agree with the philosophical approach you have selected. The task here is to practice ***applying*** a framework to a real-world problem.

### 3. Describe how YOU think the controversy should be resolved (~1/3 of a page single spaced) 

* Describe what you think is the right and just thing to do. Why do you think this?
* Given your assessment, explain which philosophical perspective(s) you most align with and why.

### 4. Three Slide Summary
Create a very short, 3-slide summary of your analysis using Google Slides, PowerPoint, etc., and be prepared to present and talk about your analysis to your classmates on Tuesday (1/26). One slide will describe the controversy, one slide will describe your analysis, and one slide will describe your own perspectives. Feel free to communicate these ideas any way that you want (text, images, etc.). 

## Paper Format, References, & Citation Guidelines
* Please reference at least three different news sources / think pieces (e.g. newspaper articles, blogs, online magazines, etc.) related to your debate. When possible, these sources will characterize the debate from multiple angles.
* Please cite your sources as you describe the controversy and characterize the philosophical approaches, following APA guidelines for formatting and references. 
* Your HW1 format may be in essay form or you may list out the three questions and respond to each of them -- up to you.

## Rubric
### Description of the Controversy (20%)
Quality of the research and description; appropriate sense of complexity of the topic; appropriate awareness of opposing views and people involved; compliance with the instructions.

### Analysis of the Controversy (40%)
Appropriate characterization of the philosophical ideas; clarity of the analysis; logical and clear arrangement of ideas; good development of ideas through supporting detail and evidence.

### Personal Take on the Controversy (10%)
Student puts themselves and their own thinking into dialog with philosophical ideas; student describes how their own thinking aligns (or doesn't align) with a particular philosophical stance.

### Presentation (10%) 
Guidelines followed; student presents their paper during class time.

### Grammar, style, and clarity (20%)
Ease of readability; appropriate voice (e.g., active, not passive), tone, and style for assignment; clarity of sentence structure; Grammatically correct sentences; absence of comma splices, run-ons, fragments; careful proofreading; compliance with all instructions in syllabus.

## What to Submit
Upload both your paper and slides to <a href="https://canvas.northwestern.edu/courses/130544/assignments/846286" target="_blank">Canvas</a> by the deadline specified.
* Your paper is due Sunday night
* Your slides are due before class on Tuesday