---
layout: assignment-two-column
title: Sociopolitical Analysis of a Technology
abbreviation: HW 2
type: homework
ordering: 2
due_date: 2021-03-01
draft: 0
---

## Paper

Pick a technology that you would like to think more about in terms of its broader social and ethical implications. You may interpret the concept of "technology" however you like -- you choose. Then, using at least 3 of the academic sources we have read so far, write a paper that analyzes some of the social and political dimensions of the technology you selected. Your analysis should shed light on questions such as: 

* What values do this technology reflect, embrace, reject, or encourage? 
* Who is affected by its design?
* How was its design affected by society? 
* Who reaps the benefits, and who suffers the costs of its creation and use? 

Your paper should be 5-6 pages double spaced, 12-point font, Times New Roman. Follow APA guidelines for formatting and references. 

If you would like to see some examples of effective (and inspiring) papers from last quarter, please see the <a href="https://canvas.northwestern.edu/courses/130544/files/folder/hw2-samples-do-not-share" target="_blank">hw2-samples-do-not-share</a> folder. These papers are a bit longer than what you should shoot for, but if you would like to write a bit more, you are welcome to.

## Slides & Short Presentation
In addition to yoru paper, please create a very short, 3-slide summary of your analysis using Google Slides, PowerPoint, etc. Feel free to communicate these ideas any way that you want (text, images, etc.). You will be giving a short (3-5 minute presentation of your paper in class on Thursday, 3/4).

## What to turn in
1. Your paper
2. Your slides